I am telling you the full tale of two brothers, cut and uncut, so sit back and relax, as we dive into it!

Our tale starts in 372 YW, during the First Dark Age of Wesnoth, "a time of strife and invasion". The First Dark Age was, after Haldric IV died, "marked by short-lived dynasties, attacks by ever more aggressive orcs, and the further separation of Wesnoth and Elensefar." Ah, Elensefar. "Sometimes a province of Wesnoth, sometimes an independent country, and sometimes in treaty federation with Wesnoth." But, I digress. Our story starts in the village of Wintervale, within the land of Elensefar, on its very north-eastern border. I am not able to tell you its exact location as I don't know it myself, but if you are really that curious, there are wiser men than me in this world, and they might know exactly what you are looking for. All I can tell is that it is somewhere north of Wesmere forest, an ancient elvish forest, old as the world itself; some people say that its where all the elves came from, and south-east of Glamdrol, large orcish fortress, almost impenetrable due to high mountains that surround it and strong walls.

Wintervale was settled during The Golden Age of Wesnoth. The exact year is not known, sadly. All that my knowledge allows me to tell is that during The Golden Age Elensefar expanded it's borders to the north. From what I learned, one Count of Elensefar, during the times of expansion, was wise and educated man. One legend says that he was trained to become a mage on Isle of Alduin, but that he was expelled for practicing dark arts. Anyhow, he built 25 outposts all across Elensefar's northern border, knowing that dark times are ahead. The purpose of this outposts was simple: see the danger, report the danger. Alongside with urgent messages, every outposts had to report its status every two weeks to the Count of Elensefar. Messages were delivered by a horseman. The outposts were tracking orcish movement alongside borders. Only once, in 361 YW, the Count needed to raise an army and march north to confront orcs, after four outposts were burned to ground by orcs.

*PARAGRAPH ABOUT BROTHERS, HISTORY AND VILLAGE HABITS*

Our story starts in an autumn, to be precise, Stillseed of year 372, counted from founding of Wesnoth. Crops were scarce, and people counted they'd barely have to survive the winter without additional hunting or fishing. Oh, did I forget to mention that Wintervale was built next to a river? {NAME} is its name. Anyhow, this year witnessed many orc raids so far, village itself a few, and everyone counted that with the end of the summer, they would end. And it would indeed be true, if it wasn't a powerful necromancer who paid orcs to attack Wintervale, knowing of Arvith's habit of chasing orcs who ran away. How he did it stays unknown. My theory is that he sent a skeleton, ghost, or bat with message to the the closest orcish encampment, where he told orcs that he will pay them if they attack Wintervale and be defeated. Humans aren't capable of following orcs through forest, and I am certain that Darken did explicitly say it to orcs that they must be sure to bring humans to their encampment. Our brothers succesfully repel the orcs from Wintervale, and, like that necromancer predicted, chased orcs through the forest, to eventually come to their encampment.

Ah, but this was a devious plan indeed. Darken Volk was name of the necromancer. In order for you to better understand the whole story, I will now tell you what were his intentions. Darken wanted to recover a powerful relic, that lied in the catacombs of Glamdrol, where he traced it, well, I guess with his dark magic. This relic's story and what was it stays unknown for me. So, he forged a plan how he would put his hands on this artifact, as orcs would never let him to get into their city. The key part of that plan were our brothers, Baran and Arvith. I've already told you first part of this plan; he would bring brothers to the closest orc encampment. His story was simple; he was a mage on Anduin when his parents and his whole village were burnt by orcs. This was his way to revenge, and he is, to help him in fight, summoning ghosts of people from his village who wanted revenge. He counted on brothers to capture orcish encampment, where he would introduce next step in his story, but this time a honest one; that orcs were in last few years attacking outposts all over Elensefar's border, and that things are not looking good for people of Elensefar. But even in his honesty, he has to lie: he would tell brothers that orcs were planning a massive invasion on Elensefar, and that their chance lied now; they would need to strike swiftly and right in the heart, and capture Glamdrol. That would make orcs unable to attack for the next couple of years, as they needed to rebuild Glamdrol. He would explain truthfully that every year greatest chiefs from Glamdrol and surrounding areas go on grand hunt, searching for, as they call it, The Great Stag. This would be the the best chance, and possibly the only chance to prevent this invasion, as the orcs wouldn't be prepared for it. His last part of the plan was, if they indeed capture Glamdrol, to sneak into the catacombs one night and take the relic and disappear.

And this is indeed how it happened. Not everything went smoothly as Darken expected, but his plan worked. Baran was very suspicious about this necromancer, but instead of confronting him, he decided to find out what necromancer's real intentions were.
With a lot of effort, brothers succeeded, with help of their ally, to capture Glamdrol. It was of essence that they arrive before Vergas Bloom, since already almost impenetrable, this orcish fortress becomes indeed impenetrable with thick layers of snow around it, making the only way to get into the city through its gates.
Despite Darken's advices, brothers let orcish women and children go unscattered, while slaying every last orc who could wear weapons. To the history, it is unknown where this women went, but that hardly matters.

And then, so close to realizing his plan, Darken picked a night when he would "steal" the relic and run away. He just... disappeared. Where he went, it is covered in mist. He will appear in history books once more, following young human, Malin Keshar, but that story is not on me to tell.

Anyhow, brothers had a big decision in front of them. Stay in Glamdrol during the winter and be besieged at the start of spring, or try to travel back to Wintervale, where orcs would probably come for revenge. And brothers decided the better option - they stayed in Glamdrol and prepared the city for siege. And it was like they thought: on the first signs of melting snow, orcs marched on Glamdrol. Brothers tried to defend, but orc numbers were vast, and it seemed hopeless. But then, on the third day of the siege, the Sovereign arrived.

Those were times of orcs union. The caste of orcish shamans was not yet formed, and the biggest role was of the Sovereign. Whatever he said was last, and so it was here. It is unknown how and why he travelled to Glamdrol. Some people suggest that it was because he wanted to intervene and solve this conflict between humans and orcs. Some say that he wanted to join the battle himself, but when he saw how fiercely humans fight, he decided to let them go. Anyhow, brothers and all men under their command owed their lives to this Sovereign.

And so brothers started their journey back to Wintervale. When they thought everything is over, a wolf rider came. The exact words aren't known, but he said that, unless they bow to current High Chief of Glamdrol and swear their allegiance, that the village will be burned. Brothers decided that the village is more important than their pride and honor, and decided to do that... just to find that village was already burned by the time of their arrival. This gave brothers good enough reason to avenge their families, as they killed every orc that was moving near their village. Some theories suggest that not all denizens died, but they instead hid on an island and cut off the bridge so orcs can't reach them, but this is highly unlikely.

After these events brothers decided to dedicate their lives to some greater purpose. According to their journals, Baran travelled to Weldyn to offer his services to the Mage Council. Arvith, along with men who followed him, travelled to Elensefar to enter their army. His plans were that he eventually gets valuable general in Elensefar's army and to prove to Count of Elensefar that Northlands are dangerous and that people should abandon it. 
Humans stayed in the Northlands for merely next 150 years, until rule of Asheviere, nowadays known as Asheviere the Cruel. What she did is yet another story.